add "What's new in Astro - December 2023" (#937)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/whats-new-december-2023.mdx

---
title: "What's new in Astro - December 2023"
description: ""
publishDate: "December 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-november-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

## Releases

Just in time for the end of the year, we released Astro 4.0!

- [Astro 4.0](https://github.com/withastro/astro/releases/tag/astro%404.0.0)
- [Starlight 0.15](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.15.0)

## Docs

@TODO:

## Community

### Community Awards November

- 🌟 $250 awarded to 
- 🥳 $250 awarded to 
- 🎉 $250 awarded to 
- 🍾 $250 awarded to 
- 🎊 $250 awarded to 
- 🎁 $250 awarded to 

## Showcase

> ### Content

Reviewer: Last month's section for this, we turned these more into small, descriptive sentences and used emoji. Let's follow that pattern here, too!

- [Quick-and-useful: A DIY, self-hosted Linktree and Linkinbio clone with Astro and TinaCMS](https://darko.io/posts/linktree-and-linkinbio-clone-with-astro-and-tinacms/) by @_seiryuu_
- [You are using Astro wrong](https://arshx.substack.com/p/you-are-using-astro-wrong-a-survival) by @arshxcx
- [Launching a blog with Astro](https://goulven-clech.dev/2023/launching-blog-astro) by @goulvenclech
- [Using RESEND (email API) with Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyDwVN1AFwY&t=2s) by @chrispennington
- [A year working with HTML Web Components](https://hawkticehurst.com/writing/a-year-working-with-html-web-components/)
- Community Call Deluxe from last week is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY)
- [https://jackcarey.co.uk/posts/astro-rewrite/](https://jackcarey.co.uk/posts/astro-rewrite/) by @jack_jack_jack
- [Deep dive on View Transitions blog post series](https://fryuni.dev/deep-dive/astro-view-transitions/) by @Fryuni
- [Astro Crash Course Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM)  by Brad Traversy
- [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms) blog post](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain

> ### Themes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Themes

New Astro themes released this month. Try them out!
```

- [Docbox](https://docbox-astro.vercel.app/) by @tffarhad
- [ltree theme for Astro](https://github.com/DBozhinovski/astro-theme-ltree)
- [Brutal](https://brutal.elian.codes) has reached over 150 stars by @eliancodes

### Tools & tips

With the release of the Astro Dev Toolbar, we also have Dev Toolbar apps to showcase now!

- [Astro Dev Toolbar app for cloudflare](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo)
- [Astro Tunnel app for Dev Toolbar](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel)
- [Lighthouse app for Dev Toolbar](https://github.com/buk0vec/astro-lighthouse/tree/main)
- [Cloudflare Dev Toolbar App (demo/WIP)](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo) by @alex
- [Astro Font Picker devtoolbar app](https://github.com/randombits-dev/astro-font-picker) by @randombits.dev
- [Astro Tunnel devtoolbar app](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel) by @shf0811
- [astro-font](https://github.com/rishi-raj-jain/astro-font) by @rishirajjain
- [Clerk + Astro demo](https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo) by @vinny_code
- [astro-heroicons](https://github.com/SeanMcP/astro-heroicons) updated by @seanmcp

> ### Websites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Websites

Websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.
```
I know we haven't done this before, but I think we should have a short sentence describing these categories going forward. These lists are getting quite long without anything to "read" around them!  :smile:

- [agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app](https://agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app/) by @koshchei.
- [sahaja.bad.al](https://sahaja.bad.al/) by @theblapse
- [calaisrespire.com](https://calaisrespire.com/) by @.kamalito
- [johnzanussi.com](https://johnzanussi.com/) by @johnzanussi
- [minirampfoundation.org](https://minirampfoundation.org/) by @johnzanussi
- [switchcase.xyz](https://switchcase.xyz/) by @hellohithisme
- [mmbu2023.vercel.app](https://mmbu2023.vercel.app/) by @heunha
- [blog.memos.land](https://blog.memos.land/en/) by @oscarbustos
- [trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app](https://trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app/) by @ekfuhrmann
- [xn--berlandpost-shb.ch](https://xn--berlandpost-shb.ch/) by @meintest_26190
- [caiodeveloper.ca](https://www.caiodeveloper.ca/) by @caiomarcellus
- [offeringinspiration.com](https://offeringinspiration.com/Crafts/) by @randombits.dev
- [lalospirits.com](https://lalospirits.com/) by @bigskillet0521
- [clerk-astro-demo](https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo) by @vinny_code
- [belief.gg](https://belief.gg/) by @t1c.dev
- [grafoma.se](https://grafoma.se/) by @.hydde

> ### Starlight in the wild

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Starlight in the wild

Take a peek at the new Starlight sites that we discovered this month.
```

---
title: "What's new in Astro - December 2023"
description: "December: last month of the year, a time to reflect on all the amazing things we've shipped, including Astro 4.0!"
publishDate: "December 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-december-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

> 

Reviewer 2: I feel like linking to some of our launch week items does make sense in a monthly recap. If we’re including Docs on Starlight (which was a subitem of launch week) these are a big deal! To handle that, suggesting a small “News” section with these amongst others:

```suggestion

## News

- We launched a [$100,000 Astro Ecosystem Fund](https://astro.build/blog/astro-ecosystem-fund/) and would love for you to apply!
- Sentry is now Astro’s [Official Monitoring Partner](https://astro.build/blog/sentry-official-monitoring-partner/).
- Astro came top in user satisfaction in [Netlify’s State of Web Development](<https://www.netlify.com/resources/ebooks/the-state-of-web-development-2023/>) report — thanks everyone!
- [Astro Studio is coming soon…](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1733199595231199584)

```

Reviewer: I love this idea! I vote ##News becomes a new section!

Author: Oh yeah! I love this!

Great idea Chris!

## Releases

Just in time for the end of the year, we released Astro 4.0!

> - [Astro 4.0](https://github.com/withastro/astro/releases/tag/astro%404.0.0)

Reviewer 2: We have a shiny blog post we can link to here!

```suggestion
- [Astro 4.0](https://astro.build/blog/astro-4/)
```

Author: Shouldn't this be a local link?

```suggestion
- [Astro 4.0](/blog/astro-4/)
```

Reviewer 2: Oh yeah, definitely!

- Building a new header component for our integrations pages
- Establishing a community Glossary project
- Discussing how to write/standardize Changelog messages
- Adding a mini-showcase with links to themes using each CMS on our CMS guide pages
- Updating our integration docs to include MDX components and Expressive Code

## Community

### Community Awards November

- 🌟 $250 awarded to Atharva for significant contributions to Astro Docs and active community involvement.
- 🥳 $250 awarded to McFlyPartages for translating a significant portion of the Astro Docs into French.
- 🎉 $250 awarded to Hippo for exceptional work releasing, maintaining, and providing support for Expressive Code.
- 🍾 $250 awarded to Eva Decker for actively supporting the Astro Community on Discord.
- 🎊 $250 awarded to Jumper for being a super positive, welcoming and supportive presence in the Astro Discord.
- 🎁 $250 awarded to Happydev for significant work on the Astro Core code base.

Check them out or learn more about the Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

## Showcase

### Content

> 

Reviewer 2: EVEN MOAR CONTENT

```suggestion

📺 Learn why [Jason Lengstorf will choose Astro (almost) every time in 2024](https://youtu.be/kssIEqSJeMI?si=g9Yg6MVpT2kB4Gqf)

```

> 🚉 [Nuxt 2 to Astro 3 Replatforming – from Setup to Production](https://stevenwoodson.com/blog/replatforming-from-nuxtjs-2-to-astro/) by @stevenwoodson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🚉  See how a full site migration went in [Nuxt 2 to Astro 3 Replatforming – from Setup to Production](https://stevenwoodson.com/blog/replatforming-from-nuxtjs-2-to-astro/) by @stevenwoodson
```

> 🌴 [Quick-and-useful: A DIY, self-hosted Linktree and Linkinbio clone with Astro and TinaCMS](https://darko.io/posts/linktree-and-linkinbio-clone-with-astro-and-tinacms/) by @\_seiryuu\_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🧑‍🍳 Follow the recipe for [Quick-and-useful: A DIY, self-hosted Linktree and Linkinbio clone with Astro and TinaCMS](https://darko.io/posts/linktree-and-linkinbio-clone-with-astro-and-tinacms/) by @\_seiryuu\_
```

> ⚠️ [You are using Astro wrong](https://arshx.substack.com/p/you-are-using-astro-wrong-a-survival) by @arshxcx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚠️ Get some tips, because maybe [You are using Astro wrong](https://arshx.substack.com/p/you-are-using-astro-wrong-a-survival) by @arshxcx
```

> 🚀 [Launching a blog with Astro](https://goulven-clech.dev/2023/launching-blog-astro) by @goulvenclech

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🚀 Welcoming a new astronaut to the spaceship! A great article to send to your Astro-curious friends: [Launching a blog with Astro](https://goulven-clech.dev/2023/launching-blog-astro) by @goulvenclech
```

> 📧 @chrispennington released a video on [using RESEND (email API) with Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyDwVN1AFwY&t=2s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📧 Learn how to use [using RESEND (email API) with Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyDwVN1AFwY&t=2s) in a new video by @chrispennington
```
I just changed this to match the other structures so that we end with the person (and therefore, don't need a period on only *some* of them! 😄

> 🎉 [A year working with HTML Web Components](https://hawkticehurst.com/writing/a-year-working-with-html-web-components/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🎉 Read all about [A year working with HTML Web Components](https://hawkticehurst.com/writing/a-year-working-with-html-web-components/) by @hawkticehurst
```

> 👀 Community Call Deluxe from launch week is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
👀 Astro's 6-hour Launch Week Community Call Deluxe from launch week is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY) hosted by @sarah11918 
```

Author: ```suggestion
👀 Astro's 6-hour Launch Week Community Call Deluxe is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY) hosted by @sarah11918 
```

🛠️ Want to move [from Jekyll to Astro](https://jackcarey.co.uk/posts/astro-rewrite/)? Read this post by @jack_jack_jack

> 🤿 [Deep dive on View Transitions blog post series](https://fryuni.dev/deep-dive/astro-view-transitions/) by @Fryuni

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🤿 Take a [Deep dive on View Transitions blog post series](https://fryuni.dev/deep-dive/astro-view-transitions/) by @Fryuni
```

> 🏎️ New to Astro? Check out this [Astro Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM) by Brad Traversy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🏎️ New to Astro? Check out this updated [Astro Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM) by Brad Traversy
```

> 🏁 [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms) blog post](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🏁 Define the controlled rollout of your next  feature by following [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms)](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain
```

Author: ```suggestion
🏁 Define the controlled rollout of your next feature by following [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms)](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain
```

> 

Reviewer 2: MOAR CONTENT

```suggestion

🧑‍🎓 Get early access to [Chris Pennington’s project-based Astro course](https://learnastro.dev/)

```

### Themes

New Astro themes released this month. Try them out!

- [Docbox](https://docbox-astro.vercel.app/) by @tffarhad
- [ltree theme for Astro](https://github.com/DBozhinovski/astro-theme-ltree)

> - [Brutal](https://brutal.elian.codes) has reached over 150 stars by @eliancodes

Reviewer 2: MOAR THEMES!

```suggestion
- [Dusk](https://lexingtonthemes.com/info/dusk/) by @michael-andreuzza
- [Brutal](https://brutal.elian.codes) has reached over 150 stars by @eliancodes
```

Reviewer: MOAR:

- [Indie Astro SSR starter](https://petitpois.gumroad.com/l/indie-astro/6n6943w) by @petitpois

Reviewer 2: Nice! Updated my suggestion to include this too.

Author: Thanks!

### Tools & tips

With the release of the Astro Dev Toolbar, we also have Dev Toolbar apps to showcase now!

- [Astro Dev Toolbar app for cloudflare](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo)
- [Astro Tunnel app for Dev Toolbar](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel)
- [Lighthouse app for Dev Toolbar](https://github.com/buk0vec/astro-lighthouse/tree/main)
- [Cloudflare Dev Toolbar App (demo/WIP)](https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr/astro-cf-dev-toolbar-app-demo) by @alex
- [Astro Font Picker devtoolbar app](https://github.com/randombits-dev/astro-font-picker) by @randombits.dev
- [Astro Tunnel devtoolbar app](https://www.npmjs.com/package/astro-tunnel) by @shf0811
- [astro-font](https://github.com/rishi-raj-jain/astro-font) by @rishirajjain
- [Clerk + Astro demo](https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo) by @vinny_code
- [astro-heroicons](https://github.com/SeanMcP/astro-heroicons) updated by @seanmcp

### Websites

Websites submitted to our Discord `#showcase` channel and featured on community calls this month.

> 

Reviewer 2: Not sure how widely we include stuff here, but I’d guess this is a pretty big one from this month? ([Launch tweet](https://x.com/_davideast/status/1730361928285909250?s=20) for reference)

```suggestion

- [idx.dev/blog](https://idx.dev/blog) by Google
```

(This one would need to be added in #938 instead potentially)

Author: Oh yeah! thanks. Will add manually!

---
title: "What's new in Astro - December 2023"
description: "December: last month of the year, a time to reflect on all the amazing things we've shipped, including Astro 4.0!"
publishDate: "December 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-december-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

## News

- We launched a [$100,000 Astro Ecosystem Fund](https://astro.build/blog/astro-ecosystem-fund/) and would love for you to apply!
- Sentry is now Astro’s [Official Monitoring Partner](https://astro.build/blog/sentry-official-monitoring-partner/).
- Astro came top in user satisfaction in [Netlify’s State of Web Development](<https://www.netlify.com/resources/ebooks/the-state-of-web-development-2023/>) report — thanks everyone!
- [Astro Studio is coming soon…](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1733199595231199584)

## Releases

Just in time for the end of the year, we released Astro 4.0!

- [Astro 4.0](/blog/astro-4/)
- [Starlight 0.15](https://github.com/withastro/starlight/releases/tag/%40astrojs%2Fstarlight%400.15.0)

## Docs

> The Astro Documentation is now running on Starlight!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Astro Documentation](https://docs.astro.build) is now running on Starlight!
```

> We have also officially launched [Astro Docs Docs (AD²)](https://contribute.docs.astro.build) to help you contribute to docs! You'll find all kinds of information whether you're making your first open-source PR or a seasoned member of Team Docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have also officially launched [Astro Docs Docs (AD²)](https://contribute.docs.astro.build) to help you contribute to docs! You'll find all kinds of helpful information whether you're making your first open-source PR or are already a seasoned member of Team Docs.
```

Our weekly Discord call “Talking and Doc’ing” is a chance for you to watch Team Docs work in public, jump in a codespace, and contribute to the docs. This month’s topics included:

- Building a new header component for our integrations pages
- Establishing a community Glossary project

> - Discussing how to write/standardize Changelog messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discussing best practices for writing helpful Changelog messages
```

> - Adding a mini-showcase with links to themes using each CMS on our CMS guide pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adding a mini-showcase with links to related themes on our CMS guide pages
```

- Updating our integration docs to include MDX components and Expressive Code

## Community

### Community Awards November

> - 🌟 $250 awarded to Atharva for significant contributions to Astro Docs and active community involvement.
> - 🥳 $250 awarded to McFlyPartages for translating a significant portion of the Astro Docs into French.
> - 🎉 $250 awarded to Hippo for exceptional work releasing, maintaining, and providing support for Expressive Code.
> - 🍾 $250 awarded to Eva Decker for actively supporting the Astro Community on Discord.
> - 🎊 $250 awarded to Jumper for being a super positive, welcoming and supportive presence in the Astro Discord.
> - 🎁 $250 awarded to Happydev for significant work on the Astro Core code base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🌟 $250 awarded to [Atharva](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/at-the-vr/) for significant contributions to Astro Docs and active community involvement.
- 🥳 $250 awarded to [McFlyPartages](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/McFlyPartages/) for translating a significant portion of the Astro Docs into French.
- 🎉 $250 awarded to [Hippo](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/hippotastic/) for exceptional work releasing, maintaining, and providing support for Expressive Code.
- 🍾 $250 awarded to [Eva Decker](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/evadecker/) for actively supporting the Astro Community on Discord.
- 🎊 $250 awarded to [Jumper](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/jdtjenkins/) for being a super positive, welcoming and supportive presence in the Astro Discord.
- 🎁 $250 awarded to [Happydev](https://astro.badg.es/contributor/MoustaphaDev/) for significant work on the Astro Core code base.
```
So, I both like hyping up Astro badges AND I like the visual interestingness of having these be links. That's my thinking here!

> Check them out or learn more about the Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out current and past winners of our Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build). Find your own Astro Badge at [https://astro.badg.es/contributors/](https://astro.badg.es/contributors/)!
```

> Check out current and past winners of our Community Awards on [our community website](https://community.astro.build). Find your own Astro Badge at [https://astro.badg.es/contributors/](https://astro.badg.es/contributors/)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out [current and past winners of our Community Awards] and claim your own [Astro Badge](https://astro.badg.es/contributors/)!
```

📧 Learn how to use [using RESEND (email API) with Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyDwVN1AFwY&t=2s) in a new video by @chrispennington

🎉 Read all about [A year working with HTML Web Components](https://hawkticehurst.com/writing/a-year-working-with-html-web-components/) by @hawkticehurst

👀 Astro's 6-hour Launch Week Community Call Deluxe is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY) hosted by @sarah11918 

🛠️ Want to move [from Jekyll to Astro](https://jackcarey.co.uk/posts/astro-rewrite/)? Read this post by @jack_jack_jack

🤿 Take a [Deep dive on View Transitions blog post series](https://fryuni.dev/deep-dive/astro-view-transitions/) by @Fryuni

🏎️ New to Astro? Check out this updated [Astro Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM) by Brad Traversy

🏁 Define the controlled rollout of your next feature by following [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms)](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain

> 🧑‍🎓 Get early access to [Chris Pennington’s project-based Astro course](https://learnastro.dev/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📄 See how to implement [versioned docs with Starlight and Vercel](https://www.webpro.nl/scraps/versioned-docs-with-starlight-and-vercel) by Lars Kappert

🧑‍🎓 Get early access to [Chris Pennington’s project-based Astro course](https://learnastro.dev/)
```

  { url: 'https://www.amigosdelretiro.com/', title: '@suhaylmv' },
  { url: 'https://caoutchou.vercel.app/', title: '@karel5743' },
  { url: 'https://agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app/', title: '@koshchei.' },
  { url: 'https://sahaja.bad.al/', title: '@theblapse' },
  { url: 'https://calaisrespire.com/', title: '@.kamalito' },
  { url: 'https://johnzanussi.com/', title: '@johnzanussi' },
  { url: 'https://minirampfoundation.org/', title: '@johnzanussi' },
  { url: 'https://switchcase.xyz/', title: '@hellohithisme' },
  { url: 'https://mmbu2023.vercel.app/', title: '@heunha' },
  { url: 'https://blog.memos.land/en/', title: '@oscarbustos' },
  { url: 'https://trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app/', title: '@ekfuhrmann' },
  { url: 'https://xn--berlandpost-shb.ch/', title: '@meintest_26190' },
  { url: 'https://www.caiodeveloper.ca/', title: '@caiomarcellus' },
  { url: 'https://offeringinspiration.com/Crafts/', title: '@randombits.dev' },
  { url: 'https://lalospirits.com/', title: '@bigskillet0521' },
  { url: 'https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo', title: '@vinny_code' },
  { url: 'https://belief.gg/', title: '@t1c.dev' },

>   { url: 'https://grafoma.se/', title: '@.hydde' },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://grafoma.se/', title: '@.hydde' },
  { url: 'https://astratechz.com/', title: '@engagepy'},
- { url: 'https://lloyd-christmas-quiz-2023.netlify.app/', title:' @lloyd1000'},
- { url: 'https://aidantomcy.github.io/', title: '@.aidant'},
- { url: 'https://devshorts.vercel.app/', title: '@floyare'},
- { url: 'https://smashing.tools/', title: '@needim'},
- { url: 'https://www.sweenystudio.com/', title: '@mac.dev'},
- { url: 'https://www.poopals.app/', title: '@guillemc23'},
- { url: 'https://yuhang.dev/', title: '@yuhang1106'},
- { url: 'https://latest.cat/', title: '@patrick.py'},
- { url: 'https://www.oscartorres.io/', title: '@oscartorres10'},
- { url: 'https://www.gdm-pixel.fr/', title: '@gdm_pixel'},
- { url: 'https://terrateam.io/', title: '@joshpollara'},
- { url: 'https://headshed.dev/', title: '@marshyon'},
- { url: 'https://anfrydev.com/', title: '@christopheanfry'},
```
Here's hoping my syntax is good.  😅

- { url: 'https://anfrydev.com/', title: '@christopheanfry'},
];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

Take a peek at the new Starlight sites that we discovered this month.

export const starlightSites = [
  { url: 'https://kitschpatrol.com/svelte-tweakpane-ui', title: 'Svelte Tweakpane UI' },
  { url: 'https://nh.outerwildsmods.com/', title: 'New Horizons' },
  { url: 'https://spotlightjs.com/', title: 'Spotlight' },
  { url: 'https://secco.lekoarts.de/', title: 'secco' },
  { url: 'https://docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs' },
  { url: 'https://ratatui.rs/', title: 'Ratatui' },
  { url: 'https://chamaeleon-docs.vercel.app', title: 'Chamaeleon' },
  { url: 'https://rainsberger.ca/', title: 'Sarah\'s Starlight Blog' },
  { url: 'https://rodydavis.github.io/signals.dart/', title: 'Signals.dart' },
  { url: 'https://dusa.rocks/docs/', title: 'Dusa' },
  { url: 'https://csmos.space/', title: 'csmos' },
  { url: 'https://crawler.siteone.io/', title: 'SiteOne' },
  { url: 'https://docs.mrrobot.app/', title: 'Mr. Robøt' },
  { url: 'https://progressively.app/', title: 'Progressively' },
  { url: 'https://taco-api.netlify.app/about/', title: 'TACO project' },

>   { url: 'https://origami-for-everyone.ft.com/', title: 'Origami for Everyone' },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://origami-for-everyone.ft.com/', title: 'Origami for Everyone' },\
  { url: 'https://www.astroicon.dev/ ', title: '@nmoodev' },
  { url: ' https://www.conceptoai.app/', title: '@leowilkin' },
  { url: ' https://docs.ghostfam.com/', title: '@cuongtqtran' },
  { url: ' https://distributor.leanflutter.dev/', title: '@LeanFlutter' },
  { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs (AD²)'},
```

📧 Learn how to use [using RESEND (email API) with Astro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyDwVN1AFwY&t=2s) in a new video by @chrispennington

🎉 Read all about [A year working with HTML Web Components](https://hawkticehurst.com/writing/a-year-working-with-html-web-components/) by @hawkticehurst

👀 Astro's 6-hour Launch Week Community Call Deluxe is on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqfzAkI4AkY) hosted by @sarah11918 

🛠️ Want to move [from Jekyll to Astro](https://jackcarey.co.uk/posts/astro-rewrite/)? Read this post by @jack_jack_jack

🤿 Take a [Deep dive on View Transitions blog post series](https://fryuni.dev/deep-dive/astro-view-transitions/) by @Fryuni

🏎️ New to Astro? Check out this updated [Astro Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM) by Brad Traversy

🏁 Define the controlled rollout of your next feature by following [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms)](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain

> 📄 See how to implement [versioned docs with Starlight and Vercel](https://www.webpro.nl/scraps/versioned-docs-with-starlight-and-vercel) by Lars Kappert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🔢 See how to implement [versioned docs with Starlight and Vercel](https://www.webpro.nl/scraps/versioned-docs-with-starlight-and-vercel) by Lars Kappert

 📄 [Publier une documentation avec Astro Starlight](https://thomasbnt.dev/blog/publier-une-documentation-avec-astro-starlight) (also includes a link to English version) by @thomasbnt
```

---
title: "What's new in Astro - December 2023"
description: "December: last month of the year, a time to reflect on all the amazing things we've shipped, including Astro 4.0!"
publishDate: "December 31, 2023"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-shared.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/whats-new-december-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
---

> ## News

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From all of us at Astro, we'd like to thank you for spending 2023 with us!

We can't wait to start the new year with you! But before we do, here's what happened around the Astroverse this month...

## News
```

  { url: 'https://hookdeck.com/', title: '@ernie9316' },
  { url: 'https://sannajammeh.com/', title: '@chiefkoshi' },
  { url: 'https://events-3bg.pages.dev/demos/', title: '@martrapp' },
  { url: 'https://greendream21.github.io/', title: '@lovebee_' },
  { url: 'https://pagepanda.vercel.app/', title: '@varvino' },
  { url: 'https://hideoo.dev/notes', title: '@hideoo' },
  { url: 'https://www.amigosdelretiro.com/', title: '@suhaylmv' },
  { url: 'https://caoutchou.vercel.app/', title: '@karel5743' },
  { url: 'https://agency-git-new-flurium.vercel.app/', title: '@koshchei.' },
  { url: 'https://sahaja.bad.al/', title: '@theblapse' },
  { url: 'https://calaisrespire.com/', title: '@.kamalito' },
  { url: 'https://johnzanussi.com/', title: '@johnzanussi' },
  { url: 'https://minirampfoundation.org/', title: '@johnzanussi' },
  { url: 'https://switchcase.xyz/', title: '@hellohithisme' },
  { url: 'https://mmbu2023.vercel.app/', title: '@heunha' },
  { url: 'https://blog.memos.land/en/', title: '@oscarbustos' },
  { url: 'https://trailbuddy-astro-view-transition-demo.netlify.app/', title: '@ekfuhrmann' },
  { url: 'https://xn--berlandpost-shb.ch/', title: '@meintest_26190' },

>   { url: 'https://www.caiodeveloper.ca/', title: '@caiomarcellus' },
>   { url: 'https://offeringinspiration.com/Crafts/', title: '@randombits.dev' },
>   { url: 'https://lalospirits.com/', title: '@bigskillet0521' },
>   { url: 'https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo', title: '@vinny_code' },
>   { url: 'https://belief.gg/', title: '@t1c.dev' },
>   { url: 'https://grafoma.se/', title: '@.hydde' },
>   { url: 'https://astratechz.com/', title: '@engagepy'},
> - { url: 'https://lloyd-christmas-quiz-2023.netlify.app/', title:' @lloyd1000'},
> - { url: 'https://aidantomcy.github.io/', title: '@.aidant'},
> - { url: 'https://devshorts.vercel.app/', title: '@floyare'},
> - { url: 'https://smashing.tools/', title: '@needim'},
> - { url: 'https://www.sweenystudio.com/', title: '@mac.dev'},
> - { url: 'https://www.poopals.app/', title: '@guillemc23'},
> - { url: 'https://yuhang.dev/', title: '@yuhang1106'},
> - { url: 'https://latest.cat/', title: '@patrick.py'},
> - { url: 'https://www.oscartorres.io/', title: '@oscartorres10'},
> - { url: 'https://www.gdm-pixel.fr/', title: '@gdm_pixel'},
> - { url: 'https://terrateam.io/', title: '@joshpollara'},
> - { url: 'https://headshed.dev/', title: '@marshyon'},
> - { url: 'https://anfrydev.com/', title: '@christopheanfry'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://www.caiodeveloper.ca/', title: '@caiomarcellus' },
  { url: 'https://offeringinspiration.com/Crafts/', title: '@randombits.dev' },
  { url: 'https://lalospirits.com/', title: '@bigskillet0521' },
  { url: 'https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo', title: '@vinny_code' },
  { url: 'https://belief.gg/', title: '@t1c.dev' },
  { url: 'https://grafoma.se/', title: '@.hydde' },
  { url: 'https://astratechz.com/', title: '@engagepy'},
  { url: 'https://lloyd-christmas-quiz-2023.netlify.app/', title:' @lloyd1000'},
  { url: 'https://aidantomcy.github.io/', title: '@.aidant'},
  { url: 'https://devshorts.vercel.app/', title: '@floyare'},
  { url: 'https://smashing.tools/', title: '@needim'},
  { url: 'https://www.sweenystudio.com/', title: '@mac.dev'},
  { url: 'https://www.poopals.app/', title: '@guillemc23'},
  { url: 'https://yuhang.dev/', title: '@yuhang1106'},
  { url: 'https://latest.cat/', title: '@patrick.py'},
  { url: 'https://www.oscartorres.io/', title: '@oscartorres10'},
  { url: 'https://www.gdm-pixel.fr/', title: '@gdm_pixel'},
  { url: 'https://terrateam.io/', title: '@joshpollara'},
  { url: 'https://headshed.dev/', title: '@marshyon'},
  { url: 'https://anfrydev.com/', title: '@christopheanfry'},
```

];

<ShowcaseGrid items={sites} />

### Starlight in the wild

Take a peek at the new Starlight sites that we discovered this month.

export const starlightSites = [
  { url: 'https://kitschpatrol.com/svelte-tweakpane-ui', title: 'Svelte Tweakpane UI' },
  { url: 'https://nh.outerwildsmods.com/', title: 'New Horizons' },
  { url: 'https://spotlightjs.com/', title: 'Spotlight' },
  { url: 'https://secco.lekoarts.de/', title: 'secco' },
  { url: 'https://docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs' },
  { url: 'https://ratatui.rs/', title: 'Ratatui' },
  { url: 'https://chamaeleon-docs.vercel.app', title: 'Chamaeleon' },
  { url: 'https://rainsberger.ca/', title: 'Sarah\'s Starlight Blog' },
  { url: 'https://rodydavis.github.io/signals.dart/', title: 'Signals.dart' },
  { url: 'https://dusa.rocks/docs/', title: 'Dusa' },
  { url: 'https://csmos.space/', title: 'csmos' },
  { url: 'https://crawler.siteone.io/', title: 'SiteOne' },
  { url: 'https://docs.mrrobot.app/', title: 'Mr. Robøt' },
  { url: 'https://progressively.app/', title: 'Progressively' },
  { url: 'https://taco-api.netlify.app/about/', title: 'TACO project' },

>   { url: 'https://origami-for-everyone.ft.com/', title: 'Origami for Everyone' },\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://origami-for-everyone.ft.com/', title: 'Origami for Everyone' },
```

  { url: 'https://www.astroicon.dev/', title: '@nmoodev' },
  { url: 'https://www.conceptoai.app/', title: '@leowilkin' },
  { url: 'https://docs.ghostfam.com/', title: '@cuongtqtran' },
  { url: 'https://distributor.leanflutter.dev/', title: '@LeanFlutter' },

>   { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs (AD²)'},
```

>   { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs (AD²)'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs'},
```

>   { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs (AD²)'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs (AD\²)'},
```

>   { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs (AD\²)'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://contribute.docs.astro.build/', title: 'Astro Docs Docs'},
```

🏎️ New to Astro? Check out this updated [Astro Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XoIHKO6AkoM) by Brad Traversy

🏁 Define the controlled rollout of your next feature by following [Adding feature flags in Astro with Xata (showcasing View Transitions Forms)](https://xata.io/blog/feature-flags-tutorial) by @rishirajjain

🔢 See how to implement [versioned docs with Starlight and Vercel](https://www.webpro.nl/scraps/versioned-docs-with-starlight-and-vercel) by Lars Kappert

 📄 [Publier une documentation avec Astro Starlight](https://thomasbnt.dev/blog/publier-une-documentation-avec-astro-starlight) (also includes a link to English version) by @thomasbnt

🧑‍🎓 Get early access to [Chris Pennington’s project-based Astro course](https://learnastro.dev/)

### Themes

New Astro themes released this month. Try them out!

- [Docbox](https://docbox-astro.vercel.app/) by @tffarhad
- [ltree theme for Astro](https://github.com/DBozhinovski/astro-theme-ltree)
- [Dusk](https://lexingtonthemes.com/info/dusk/) by @michael-andreuzza
- [Indie Astro SSR starter](https://petitpois.gumroad.com/l/indie-astro/6n6943w) by @petitpois

> - [Brutal](https://brutal.elian.codes) has reached over 150 stars by @eliancodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Brutal](https://brutal.elian.codes) has reached over 150 stars by @eliancodes
- [The Void](https://cosmicthemes.com/themes/demo/the-void/) by @CosmicThemes
```

  { url: 'https://www.caiodeveloper.ca/', title: '@caiomarcellus' },
  { url: 'https://offeringinspiration.com/Crafts/', title: '@randombits.dev' },
  { url: 'https://lalospirits.com/', title: '@bigskillet0521' },
  { url: 'https://github.com/vin-e/clerk-astro-demo', title: '@vinny_code' },
  { url: 'https://belief.gg/', title: '@t1c.dev' },
  { url: 'https://grafoma.se/', title: '@.hydde' },
  { url: 'https://astratechz.com/', title: '@engagepy'},
  { url: 'https://lloyd-christmas-quiz-2023.netlify.app/', title:' @lloyd1000'},
  { url: 'https://aidantomcy.github.io/', title: '@.aidant'},
  { url: 'https://devshorts.vercel.app/', title: '@floyare'},
  { url: 'https://smashing.tools/', title: '@needim'},
  { url: 'https://www.sweenystudio.com/', title: '@mac.dev'},
  { url: 'https://www.poopals.app/', title: '@guillemc23'},
  { url: 'https://yuhang.dev/', title: '@yuhang1106'},
  { url: 'https://latest.cat/', title: '@patrick.py'},
  { url: 'https://www.oscartorres.io/', title: '@oscartorres10'},
  { url: 'https://www.gdm-pixel.fr/', title: '@gdm_pixel'},
  { url: 'https://terrateam.io/', title: '@joshpollara'},
  { url: 'https://headshed.dev/', title: '@marshyon'},

>   { url: 'https://anfrydev.com/', title: '@christopheanfry'},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { url: 'https://anfrydev.com/', title: '@christopheanfry'},
  { url: 'https://orlandoguevara.dev/', title: '@Tomate Malicioso'},
  { url: 'https://creativelegazpi.ph/', title: '@Heunha'},
  { url: 'https://gruppoedoardo.it/', title: '@Proibito04'},
```
